Thank you very much, everyone, for coming today. Thank you again. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you.
Again, we will continue the teachings and the words of the great Master Yabji.
Do you remember me as a great teacher? But I talk. And as well as practice by all those great pract
icers and great practices,
all great masters, the practice and the elite enlightenment. So we are following them.
It's still in that same passage, that. And then we activate, and we come, and we try to catch up,
try to let clarification on our practice and meditation. So that's what we will be doing.
Again, with those, all that reasons, we should rest in our joy and appreciation and bodhicata
thought.
Thought and to all living beings that I'm going to reflect on the teaching.
Teaching, because I like to benefit all living beings to remove their suffering, the difficulties
or
to remove their cause of the suffering truth and the suffering truth. And bring totally the
actually enlightenment status, all totally peace and happiness, the ultimate goal or desire of
every
living beings. So I really like to bring that for that reason, that I'm going to practice, edit it,
and activate it of the teaching. Those are our, those intention with that intention. Then
now we go to our teachings. And today, again, we continue to go on this topic, which is
lay out as like post noble, second noble, and third noble. And even though it is kind of false,
the second and third, reality, they're all collected. Isn't that something that totally
different from each other's all is revealing every point is revealing our innate true nature,
our positive attitude and thought and kindness, compassion that is reflected all things directly
in their day. That's the reality. Teaching is all about. So now with that prayer, again,
we discussed those forced motivation or post noble, and let me explain extensively, very slowly and
then, and now we're going in the middle of that, the principle noble. Principle noble is the
principle
practices. And then again, in that case, what we say is like actually in the Bodhisattva teaching,
it is actualizing bodhicitta or actualizing bodhisattvas or actualizing bodhicitta, sorry,
actualizing bodhicitta. And that is really what is all. And how do you actualize the bodhicitta
in the teaching is through the six parameters. Again, this six parameter is not something
completely different from each other. All connected, all are lined up. As we discussed the other
day,
everything one after another is really connected. Even one single parameter contains the old six
parameters. So it's not different from the reality of all. And now that way, we went among the six
parameters, the first parameter, the generous parameters. Today, we are in a morality parameter,
or a shila parameter. Shila parameter is a principle part of the practices of the Bodhisattvas.
Once you develop the bodhicitta, then you practice the shila parameters.
Shila parameter, as I said, and you all know, can be divided into three sections, three groups.
That shila parameter or the morality parameter, that way avoiding all the negativities.
That is number one. Second is morality that will gathering all the virtues.
That means what virtues? Dharma. All the dharma, all the teachings are gathering.
Where? To our mind streams, to our knowledge, to our understanding. Bring that beautiful
treasure of the teaching, teaching into the spotlight of our own mind or knowledge. Gather it.
And then third morality. The fourth is avoiding all the negativities. Second morality is gathering
all the virtues or the dharmas. Dharmas. And the third is benefiting for all the living beings,
morality that will benefit for all living beings. Now you think this three is known as electric
moralities also. Subdivision of the moralities. But reality, it encompasses entirely teaching,
or teaching of the practices. Practice. It encompasses entirely teaching of this
the Jyabji Duryumudya's teaching. Entirely. That all is within this three morality. In that sense,
all the rest of the parameters. What that means is rest of the parameters. The patient parameters,
during forever two parameters. Concentrate on your parameters. Most of the parameters,
any generous parameter is all in these morality parameters.
That is really how complexity, how profound, how deep it is. It is. Now again I will go over this.
This. Who is this morality that will avoid all the negativities?
That encompasses entire vows of the buddhist teachings. Vowels, samayas. All the vinayaktam,
the basic Buddhist school vinaya rules, is within there. And sutramahayana is vows,
or bodhisattva is vows within there. And many other vows or samayas within that post the moralities
.
Morality that will avoid all the negativities.
All the negativities. Directly, indirectly. Enforced morality of the vinaya teachings.
What is teachings? Avoid all the negative action. Negative activities. Directly, indirectly
to all the living beings. That is essence of the first vows or the vinaya vows. Essence.
Essence. That's it. Avoid harmful actions.
Negativities that will hurt others. Directly, indirectly. Why am I saying hurt others?
Because Mahayana is best of compassion. Bodhicatha is best absolutely on compassion
and loving kindness and wisdom. Therefore, we remember, we discussed even taking
refuge in Mahayana. Primary purpose is compassion. Primary cause of the taking refuge is compassion
.
That is a specialist of Mahayana. Mahayana has two Mahayana. Suttramahayana, Vedayana Mahayana.
So it's all compassion. Therefore, avoiding negativities. Directly, indirectly to all the
beings. That also of course indicated to you or to our side too. Because we have to be strong,
we have to be more well-equipped to help benefit and grow ourselves so we can be really
well-prepared, well-growed, build up the strength to benefit for all beings.
Therefore, this is the one. The entire vinaya guidelines are complete within this.
Then Mahayana vowels, always in the teaching, above the vinaya vowels.
Basically, this is called vowels. Above that, keeping that. That means keeping that, add one more.
Suttramahayana vowels. It's benefiting. Performing the beneficial activities for all the living
beings.
Directly, indirectly. By, again, both each other.
Performing beneficial activities to benefit to every living being. Directly, indirectly,
according to our capabilities. That encompasses entirely
bodhicata vowels or bodhisattva vowels. It encompasses everything.
Now that. And above that, that means above the vinaya vowels, above the bodhisattva vowels,
and vediana vowels. Sing everything or realizing everything as in three various states.
Whether a form, whether a song, whether a space or mind. Everything. All body,
speech, mind of enlightenment. Body, speech, mind, enlightenment of buddha is not just
a kind of isolated one single group from others. The entire little. Entirely. What is involved?
On the teaching said, poem, song, space, and mind. That's it. There's nothing else.
Poem, song, space, and mind. The whole, all forms are enlightened poems. Poems.
And all the songs are enlightened songs. All the space, or not all, space and mind
is enlightened space. Enlightened. It's enlightened. It's wisdom. Ordinary enlightened. It's not
something
that we're making this enlightenment because we are practicing. Because it's enlightened,
we are revealing. That's what it is according to the teaching. So that means that is the essence
of the entire Vadiyana vowels. So therefore, the fourth one, avoiding all the naked witches,
directly, directly of the morality. That encompasses entirely vows of the entire buddha teachings.
And vows of the buddha teaching is best about the human ethics or good ethics.
Human ethics, generally Buddhism, is the foundation of the buddha's ethics or guidelines,
moralities. It's not something that buddha taught us kind of completely different things. Things
separated from the tradition, good ethics, all characters of the world, other humans.
It's not. Good ethics, good character stress of the human world is very foundation of the buddha's
moralities. And then what buddha did? Buddha glorified that. More laboratory. More glorified,
more laboratory. Laboratory so that we can be safe on the storm, pure and clean, humble and
simple and move forward with full joy and appreciation and all those beautiful tools
that really come one after another. Unfolding the treasures are opening one after another.
When you open one treasure of the mind, it opens another one and opens another. It comes,
the treasure of the richness of the fresh mind is just coming. And then one in the teaching said,
when you reach higher realization, there's hundreds of doors of the realization and the samadhi
powers
are on, all day, one after another. Those are the teachings said. So that is what really it is.
So with that understanding, now today we are going to talk about this second moralities,
which is gathering all the rituals, morality that gathering all the rituals that I'm translating.
But as I said, rituals is done. Teaching. Good, good things. Good is good for me,
is good for the others. That means others, all the living beings. Not just select the Guru others.
All the beings is good. That morality we gather. That is practicing of the dharma.
Together to re-clarify, reactivate, glorify. So it's, it's, it's, it's saturated to our mind
streams that what Buddha rains, it rains in our heart, in our realization. It then really deepening
and glorifying them. So that is gathering. One after another, gathering. And what are those?
Then gathering all the teachings of the basic Buddhist schools, Theravada teachings,
Sotramahayana teachings, Vedayana teachings. Teachings all gathering. One after another,
continuing gathering. In the practice level, we're gathering and maintaining, keeping up the three,
those three extraordinary practices. Again, morality, concentration, and resistance.
And more of the mental level, what we are keeping up. The bodhicitta. All is best upon the bodhic
itta.
Loving, kindness, compassion, wisdom. And with that, we are doing accumulation Mary,
Western Mary practices. Gather those all things. Whatever we can gather. Just really build up,
build
up, file up, file up, register our self-confident storehouse, or register our mental self storage
status, storage status, continually kind of burning up that, burning up that. And those are then
known
as, such as in the practical meditation level, start with mindfulness. Again, of course,
foundation of the bodhicitta. With mindfulness and shamatha practices, vipashana meditations. And
in
the Vedayana teaching, known as the Kriyasya, Kriyasya study practices, complete study practices,
and that's supported by all the other tools of the paramatas. Supported, activated, built up,
so calm, so peacefully, so nicely, not clashing, not pulsing, back and forth. We're just relaxed,
really. We are seeing the crucial of the enlightenment in the space of dharma dharmas.
And then at once continually activating that. That is known as then, known as gathering all the
virtues, and all the dharmas. So in this case, and according to his own religion, which is teaching
,
here, start with this one, in the page one, you look, what, you look, page one against it.
And the, what's it called, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Yeah, it's seven lines. One in
the Kriyasya study, in the seventh line of this teaching. And do not mistake about resolve the
virtues and unvirtues. Here, this is, this is the essence of the teaching, what I'm talking about,
the moralities. Avoiding all the negativeities. Morality there will avoid all the negativeities.
That is, and so this is, again, if we talk more about this, it's also karma, law of karma,
observing the karma, and avoiding negativeities. Negativeities started from our mental states.
It's negative emotions. Negative emotions that is best up on grasping, or ignorance, and ego
clinging. When that reflecting on the emotional level, then it's known as attachment, anger,
geros, arrogance, doubt, and hesitations. Then it becomes confidential to so many
anxieties, worry, the skeptical that all untold, one afternoon, that is known as the beginning of
samsaras. That is the beginning of the dilemma and confusion of samsaras, samsara. So therefore,
avoiding from the cause, not trying to chase each of those emotions, but avoiding from the cause.
The greatest teacher, Buddha Shapte Mouni pointed out so clearly, that we upload from the mind,
which is cause, it will upload everything. Everything. So therefore, relax. All the tools
that the Buddha taught, mindfulness, self-restraint, mindfulness, alertness, consciousness,
all those tools used, trying to avoid, and will not activate it. Even is mentally kind of bubbling
that, but through the mindfulness, through the strength of our practice, not projecting that
through the verbal and physical to the external, hurting someone, and hurting one's own self.
That is treated. So if we are able to do that, that means that we are good practitioners.
Sign the practitioners is reaching the antidote at the time, at the time, reaching the antidote
at the time before it made a mess. Mess. That is good. In the Dokti teaching, I want to say,
liberating as it arises. Liberating as it is arising from the mental state, write that sport
without any trace, without any imprint. We can do that. That is sign of the practitioners.
We cannot do that. That means our practice is not so strong. So strong. Even that happened.
Even we couldn't do it at that very beginning, but then again, the other state is not holding that.
Let it go. It's not just saturated in the mental state or in the brain. Kind of create a
drop, conduct deep pressures. Kind of hanging over again and again. That is the samsara,
middle of the samsara, now we are. Middle of the we are creating calmness.
And that is really just completely kind of blended in samsara. They have,
again, through the strength of our meditation practice, reminder of our teaching, what teaching
we received, what we learned, apply that and try to let it go. Use the tools of all different
things,
such as excuse, forgive. Excuse and forgive. I forgive, you forgive.
And excuse. Sorry to each other or whatever. Use those old tools which is, in samsara,
so powerful. It's famous. It's powerful too. Even though this is not named as a mantra,
it's in the way of mantra. It's powerful. When you will say, sorry, excuse, I didn't miss sex.
And forgive me. That, if you say it, it will light up that we all know.
Being as a practitioner, we should not be in stubbornness. Kind of maintaining on that,
these things and trying to insist it on our mistakes and ego-cling activities.
That is the habit patterns. Realizing, according to the correct teacher,
Buddha Yatyamala's teaching point of view, we are banging our own head, banging on our head
and creating more calmness. Legged calmness is not good calmness. Legged calmness, we are creating.
So therefore, here, this is what teaching says here. And the rituals. Not be mistaken
about resolve the rituals and un-virtues. And then same way, virtues is, is, and positives.
That is again what I spoke in, or what I said, I'm not just, I'm saying that, but in the teaching,
teaching and morality, gathering all the virtues. That is what it is. Kind of understanding,
knowledge, the benefit, the power of the virtues. Activating that. Activating our simple,
positive mind, or good heart of compassion, loving kindness. Dharma is not something that
have to be fancy and esoteric, difficult to understand, or have to be, no, I don't understand
this much. It's simple. What great Master Papa Rumi said, Dharma is so simple. It's good heart.
It's love. It's compassion. It's wisdom. Everybody knows that. Even the animals
knows the value and the importance of love and the completeness. With that,
kind of settling quality of that we ever can have in our heart, in the mind, or your brain,
and reflecting that. That is virtues. That is positive. And we combine that with mindfulness,
then it becomes more practical, more power, more space. Mindfulness, generally, is also
wisdom. It's wisdom. It's mind. So, it's really guiding our, those beautiful motivations with
that mindfulness. So, it becomes more practical, more sensible, more powerful, more effortful,
to benefit us, and to the other beings. That is the virtues. That is progress.
So, this is what you want. That in that way, again, as he said, now you understand. To show
you understand how you can connect with that. That is really the post teachings of these moralities
.
Really, that avoiding all the negative abilities, gathering all the virtues.
Then, when we have good those things, all, such as we do a motivation, join, appreciate, both each
other,
then what we need, then this we needed, this one, the last line of this teaching. In particularly,
devotion to the root teachers. This is, devotion is so important. Now, let's say, for example,
the beautiful garden. Beautiful garden. Soil is prepared. The bodhicata soil, bodhicata ground,
love and compassion. You planted really seed of the benefit of all the living beings, or we planted
seed of the benefit for all living beings. Now, have to prefer, have to, you have, you are watering
all that. But the devotion is warmth of sunlight. We need sunlight. It will warm up. It will bring
perfect growth, exactly what we needed. After every soil and every department, if sunlight
add with that, then it blooms. That is known as blessings. Blessing. Blessing is like sunlight.
It will shine to those just bright to grow and develop that. With all the devotions,
according to the teaching, teaching in the buddhas, we cannot get at, or we cannot get perfect
realizations. It's all kind of become most, kind of like dry. But warmth of the sunlight, of the
blessings of your devotion, your motive, or what you invoke to your, by the devotion, it really
makes completely perfect, beautiful growth, bring the development. So therefore, this is so
devotional, so important. And this also not just, not just that devotion is the only one important,
this is his, his only, also he clearly say, is the one of the treasure of the practices.
Treasures. The wealth, treasure, wealth of the practitioners. Those practitioners who are seeking
to reach enlightenment, or reaching to get some higher realization, achievement, not just only
intellectual levels, but something, the heart level, that comes something that we can rely,
we can trust. Now, in the future, or when we're divided in this world, we can trust. So this, this
treasure, the wealth we need, and we don't have this wealth, what will happen? Then we become
power, power it is, poor, pathetic. Then it kind of dries up. We lost our resources, sources.
So therefore, this is the one of the first important wealth of the practitioners.
Then second, when we gather the virtues, virtues of the morality, what, what here,
his own dominion, said. The next page, love and affection to put Samaya, brother and sister.
This is second wealth, second treasures of the practitioners.
That means, is love and affection. Respect and appreciation.
Respect and appreciation generally for all the things. And I want, again, in the book,
here I want, again, in the teaching set. And the set, love and affection for Samaya, brothers and
sisters. Samaya is, of course, teachings of the Vedya, Vedyan teaching, terminology. Samayas, we
bonded with one Samayas. That means, we bonded one Samaya in one mandala over one circle, one
circle.
Circle of the mandala of the deities. Or in this case, we all bonded one circle, circle of the mand
ala
of the Gurdapriya Masambhava in the Bodhacharya Munis. We are circled. Within that frame,
in that one circle, we bonded. So that is known as the bounded Samayas. Then, in the Generated
Buddha teaching or the Guhindar Bhatantra, particularly in the teaching set, there is
five principal Samayas. Generally, all the Samayas are similar. Those are Samayas, we discussed
earlier. Those are the Generated Samayas. So the five Dhanana Buddhas and as well as Samayas of the
18th or 14th Donpols, and big ones that we joined when we do the Stellest or 10th Day in the Dakini
Phuyang. Phuyang, those we joined, those are all Samayas. But then, the Gurdapriya teaching also
made them slightly different. Actually, it's the same, same, slightly different. And those are in
it,
I just have listed those. Phuyang, first one is always honor the Supreme Ones. Second is respect
the teachers. And then, third one is never stopping the Mantra and the Mudras. Mudras.
And fourth is love for all the beings, particularly those who are in the Path. Path. Path. Fifth
one is
cigarette never revert. Cigarette never revert. Those are the five principal Samayas of this.
First, those five, the Path, first our breathing talk, that first one is never give up the Supreme
Ones. What are the Supreme Ones? Supreme Ones, realization of the true nature of the inner
thunder or very inner teaching as we're talking of the three Vedas. All the village truth is
enlightened states and male and female Buddhas. At the absolute level, everything is in great
emptiness. That is also these two are never separate from each other in a great union state.
So therefore, me, keep the view of the Vedayana. That is first important. Keep the view, keep the
realization of that. Second one, really respect the teachers. There is generally many different
teachers. But again, if you can summarize the teacher according to any other teaching,
the teacher one will give the empowerment, instruction with instruction or the explanation.
And those are known as then road teachers. All other day, I mentioned also in the Goya
Garbata, making qualification of the teachers at different, at qualifications. I mentioned
other days. And those are again, the triggers, keeping the three triggers. One will keep the
three triggers, meaning the will, meditation and Samayas. I want to teach you who is keeping.
At the same time, all the lineage teachings, empowerment are also whole. And also those are
the four. And then third one, sorry, fifth one is one who is also very responsible. Responsible to
keeping up the teaching and lineage teaching and honoring those exactly as should be, and also very
thoughtful and helping to those who are kind of students or who are kind of SLA audience,
who's always taught. And then also have the sixth one is one who is also keep the instructions
and the explanations of the Tantras. Tantras. And the seventh is one who has also knowledge
and of the motherless and the medallist and ceremony systems also knows all that.
And at one is one who has some realizations. Realization in the heart or realization in the
mind as the lineage teaching. So those are known as the qualification of the masters.
If those individuals have had that qualifications, they are the perfect teacher. I'm talking
perfect.
They have the perfect of those, they have the perfect teachers. Perfect teachers. After all,
now all, then again, of course, the ordinary teachers, maybe not necessarily all of those,
but love and compassion, honesty and keeping the practice up and the best capabilities and what
they're talking, talking also keeping that practice themselves as they practice. Those are the
generally like the sign or qualification of the teacher is. So that kind of a teacher, teacher
then always on respect. And the teacher is so important. I've got the greatest teacher,
the teaching, you should have always a teacher until you read in like that. Teacher always need
it. Teacher need a teacher and the student need teaching and the student become teacher and they
can also become the teacher and teach to others. This is the chain of lineage of the teachings
or the disciples, continually caring, like or the torch of the wisdom and compassion
that continually handed over from that 3,600 years ago until now on lineage and connected teaching.
And therefore, lineage is important. Lineage is not lineage of the kind of some different system,
custom of the way, how to, how to take advantage of others, these things or to gain the appropriate
advantage. But this lineage is lineage of the kindness, compassion, egolessness,
free from the self-deporter. That is true lineage. That continually carried all those very masters.
And the teacher often said, the chain of the golden mountains, stainless chain of the golden
mountains. And when you look at those golden mountains of the chain, one golden mountain looks more
glorified, more beautiful than others. And when you look at the others, also like that, one after
another. Everyone each is a unique person, those great masters, really. Feel the love, compassion,
kindness. The heart is filled with that. The realization is that is what they are. They are
indicated and all of that. And the same kind of honor the teaching as all of their life and their
breathing or lives, lives and continually preserved and carried that. So this, that teacher,
teacher is honored. That here, sit. Sit here. What's it? Yeah. So, oh, so is that is,
go hang up. I'm talking to you. And the next one is, then the mudras and the mantras. Never
stop. That means accordingly your promised daily practices, weekly practices, monthly practices,
while you're committed, trying to keep those up. Commitment is so important. According to Buddhism,
with Buddhism, commitment is really important. If we miss the commitment, commitment, if we can't
rely it 12 long commitment, then we could be losing. That adopted habit pattern in the teaching
said it will have, it created habit patterns. And then it could reoccur one after another.
Then it becomes truly losing. Then soon we will blame to ourselves, blame to the other and blame
to the other practices. Then we look lost. And then we brought all the samayas, the waas, all that.
We received all the beings of ascension, all the beings which once upon a minute tell the body to
bow, oh, I'm going to help you all. I'm your service for all. Until I reach enlightenment,
not just that, until you all reach enlightenment, I'm going to benefit the hell. I'm your service.
I'm going to put spread the Buddha over there. We say that clearly loaded with the clear mind
and not pressured by someone or pushed by someone. Our own heart we say that. And now we're
giving up that practice. Many times that happened, unfortunately, in the past, in ancient time or
in
Tibet, and now too. That is just really losing. Patience, breaking samayas, breaking rules, the
waas, created such heavy calmness, according to Buddhism. Oh, have we believed in the law of
karma and the cause and effect. But believe, whether we believe or not believe, doesn't matter.
It is the rule of guidance. For example, when we take the poison, whether we believe or not believe
,
believe in that poison, it will hurt us. Whether we know or not knowing, if we take the poison,
it will hurt. That is what it is. So therefore, that we should always keep our promise as much
as we can. If somehow we miss those things, then do those very self-practice in your area of
teaching.
So far, those with poor powers, practice is too old. Negative has no good qualities in the teaching
set. I want good qualities, we can purify. Purify with mindfulness. Purify that with
thoughtfulness. Purify with consciousness or alertness, with knowledge. We purify.
Then it's cleansed and purified. That's what great master Naludyana said in his letter to friends.
Once you've become the un-mindfulness and lost the attention or lost the attention,
we do many mistakes. But once you've gained the mindfulness, alertness, cautiousness,
then it will become clear and he looked at his teaching. He said, "Look to the life story of the
Angulamalas, Angulamalas, and Adyachatas, the one who killed his own fathers." But when he knocked
on
the eyes and when he did the purification, they all got good results, good results, one opener.
These are just examples of that. So therefore, this and this. So therefore, again, I'm sorry,
I'm kind of scared of that. And then in all of this, he said, "Next one is,"
"Next one, in Goya Garba, the one with the point, I think I listed you,
and one is the point is appreciation and love to all the brothers and sisters."
And that is what the young lady in the teaching said, more kind of commentary level. There is,
I think, four different brothers and sisters. Gender, brother and sister, and then an inner
brother and sisters, and then a close brother and sisters, very intimate brother and sisters.
What are those? The gender brother and sister is all the sentient beings. Everyone is our brother
and sisters. As you remember, in the Buddha teaching, he said that all living beings are
from our mothers or parents. Similarly, they also been our brothers and sisters. So all brothers,
sisters. So it means the love and the compassion, and the body and compassion to all the
brothers and sisters. So all sentient beings. Then inner brother and sisters, all the Buddhist
practitioners. It doesn't matter whichever Buddhist schools we belong, and love and affections
to all the brothers and sisters. Then a close brother and sisters is all the practitioners
of the very understanding members. Everyone, all in one who follows the same path, that is
close brother and sisters. Intimacy brother and sister is the one who within the one mandala,
received one initiation or empowerment, received the teaching, and big instructions, and during the
all doing the Ganathaka ceremony together in one mandala. Those are known as intimacy brothers and
sisters. Generally, these intimacy brothers, according to teaching brother and sisters,
is not just now, but we will be, according to teaching, we will be continuing until to reach
enlightenment and go until, until we reach enlightenment, through love, the life after
life, according to teaching. Therefore, it's so important to be respect, appreciation,
blindness, and kindness, and love and affections, all better than affections. So that is what is,
if we do that, that is one of the trades. Second trades, second wealth of the practitioners,
as in teaching, the Jyapji union, etc. And the fourth, third one, here in the text,
then it is, then this bodhic, the configurable, all mother-centered beings. Then we discuss it,
I don't have to talk more, you all know, you all remember that. It's bodhic, for all the
second beings. How? We did four bondless, we did four bondless, and for those doing practice,
equalizing, exchanging, others are more important than ourselves, those added really keeping in
heart as much as we can. Here, that is one of the trades of the, the practitioners.
Then fourth one is, then it's all, it's component is our empowerment. Everything is
empowerment. There's nothing is existing forever. It's all empowerment. Then we discuss a lot,
so I'm not going to talk now any more than that, but you know all that. These portrayals,
and we have these portrayals, these fifth trailers, including of the devotees, our dharma
practices will stay, remain so strong, so beautiful, so fresh, it's not going to expire.
Many times our practices are almost going to expire. Expire, that is getting, date of expiring
is getting close and close and almost kind of telling me why we are shortening, shortening of
these trailers, this wealth. This is really, and so they ever keep that. And this also, for example
,
this fourth one, this imp, compass, what's called, and reduction, grasping due to knowledge that
all
component things are equal. All component things are equal. This is, of course, reduced the
grasp. That is one, but also the time is short. Time is not going to stay forever,
waiting us. Well, there is a bus we have to catch. It's not, we're not, bus is not going to wait
for us.
It believes in every time. Whenever we miss that bus, we miss it. Time is like that.
Time is a rollercoaster. It's moving. When time is moving, out time is moving,
in time is clicking. Click is changing, one after another. Well, every opportunity,
every circumstance, since our fail of the impermanence, that's the time we should take advantage.
If we do that, we will be the winner. Really, we will be the winner. We follow the footsteps
of the correction teacher and all the other enlightenings. And that's how they all achieve
their final realization. The dual that fulfilled all their wishes, and also dual that were
fulfilling all the wishes or other sentiments without any discrimination. That is what it is.
So that's my teaching. And then, so this is my teaching. And then, of course,
we continue the next time. But again, I think maybe just 12 days. And we're going to stop
break for one, six days. I think one week. Until this following Sunday.
Sunday, we're going to, following Sunday is a Dakini day. And we're going to do Dakini puja.
I think that's exactly what we did before. And start at 2.30. And we do the Dakini puja
of this kind of practices. So if you like to join that time, we join. And we all do Dakini puja
that
day. And then after the Dakini puja, and again, around 4 o'clock in the afternoon, I give again
to all some of those. But we continue our teachings. So that is our announcement, right?
Our announcement. And then plus, I just thought that what's called his name. Yeah, that's it.
And then also the same. That means we are all going to have short breaks. We're going to have
little break, break of our retreat now. And also that means you will have little break for you.
This retreat for a short time. And of course, we should keep continuing our practice,
personal daily practices, all that. That we should continue to keep. So that means, to me,
also we will have the break. That means that I'm going to also have the break for six weeks.
And as well as Alhamdulillah and Alhamdulillah, they also will have break for one week, about
six days. And after that, of course, we will announce the year two. But then we resume for
maybe another five or six days. We see how things goes. And I hope everything really goes well.
Everything will completely change as spring comes. And so everything kind of more often,
and everything really, we wish and pray. And all our practice, the meditation, we're dedicated
for that reason. And for that purpose to everyone, every level. Okay. Thank you so much, everyone,
for participating, again, for coming and thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now we do a short
meditation. Again, let it know the time, but that's okay.
[BLANK_AUDIO]